AGENT-DRAFT: GKO-2006 — mTLS Certificate Management and Validation [code+dev-draft] (#1326)
gravitee-io-labs/beta-docs: docs/apim/4.11/gateway/configuration/gateway-configuration-for-mtls-certificate-management.md

# Gateway Configuration for mTLS Certificate Management

## Certificate Validation

> Uploaded certificates are validated before storage. The platform extracts the subject, issuer, expiration date, and generates a SHA-256 fingerprint. Certificates with expiration dates in the past are rejected. The fingerprint is checked for uniqueness within the environment to prevent duplicate uploads.

Reviewer: > Certificates with expiration dates in the past are rejected.
This is not true (of it is, it is in the UI, TBC).
Missed a few spots:
* Cannot be CA
* Needs to be in x509 format
* If it is certificate chain => the first one is read, other are ignored.

Author: @benoitgravitee please clarify what exact wording should be used (added/removed)

> Uploaded certificates are validated before storage. The platform extracts the subject, issuer, expiration date, and generates a SHA-256 fingerprint. Certificates with expiration dates in the past are rejected. The fingerprint is checked for uniqueness within the environment to prevent duplicate uploads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uploaded certificates are validated before storage. It must a X.509 certificate that is not a CA. If it is certificate chain, only the first one is read. The platform extracts the subject, issuer, expiration date, and generates a SHA-256 fingerprint.  The fingerprint is checked for uniqueness within the environment to prevent duplicate uploads: it is rejected if an active or scheduled certificate is bound to an active application.
```

## Prerequisites

* APIM version 4.11 or above
* Application with mTLS plan configured

> * Valid X.509 certificate in PEM format (or PKCS7 bundle)

Reviewer: PKCS7 bundle is internal to the Gateway.

```suggestion
* Valid X.509 certificates in PEM format
```
